>> Jason Rodriguez: All right, so we have
looked at a whole bunch of things so far,
the basic HTML and CSS.
We're gonna be using our email campaigns.
Some of those different elements
using things like images, links,
buttons in our emails.
But the big topic is really gonna be
about how we structure those emails,
the content inside of those emails.
How we use layouts effectively across
these different email clients.
So there's a couple of different ways
we can structure emails from a layout
perspective.
We're largely gonna focus
on table-based design,
just because that's most
reliable method of coding emails.
But when we get into looking at how
to make those layouts responsive,
we'll look at a secondary solution
called hybrid or spongy coding.
But first, before we start looking at code
or anything like that, I want to encourage
you to start thinking about all of your
email code in this modular fashion.
You wanna think about all
these different components,
creating those different components
in your emails to make it easier
to troubleshoot those
emails when problems occur.
And you built your email in this modular
design approach, then you can pinpoint
where those problems are and find those
problems and fix them a lot quicker.
But perhaps and more importantly, when
you start getting the more advanced email
development, you'll need to start building
out these modules, these components, so
that you can quickly generate
new versions of emails.
So if you have all these,
this kind of library of modules built out,
save those as snippets or partials or
something like that in your build system,
you can almost use them as
puzzle pieces or LEGO pieces.
And you can quickly create all these
different versions of an email campaign
based on what that subscriber needs.
So you can personalize things
with the actual design,
with different components that you're
pulling into your email campaigns.
But the only way you can really do that
is by building in this modular kind of
componentized way.
So we'll see how that actually works
when we start looking at tables and
what those modules will actually look
like in the context of an email campaign.
So when we're talking about layouts,
again, we're gonna use tables.
So most of you probably
haven't used tables for
layout since the late 90s, early 2000s.
Ever since Jeffrey Zeldman came around and
encouraged us to start embracing web
standards, that separation of concerns and
relying on CSS to structure our content.
And I'd love to be able to live
in that world of email, but
unfortunately we've seen all those
different email clients have different
rendering engines that support
varying levels of HTML and CSS.
So we can't reliably use CSS for
structural stuff inside of emails.
So the most reliable way to do that is use
HTML tables to provide that structure.
So the number one thing I
want you to take away, again,
when we're thinking about accessibility,
is to include the role attribute on any
table you introduce in your email
with that value of presentation.
So that it's not read out loud for
somebody using a screen reader.
Beyond that, we're going to restrict
our table elements to table,
table row and table cell.
While there are other elements like
headers and footers, and th and tf, and
all those different components, the tbody,
we're not really gonna use those.
They're not gonna make any
difference to us in our emails.
Some engines, rendering engine,
some web browsers will add those in
your email campaign without your say.
Some ESP's will just automatically
dump those in there.
But we're not gonna do anything with them,
we're not gonna worry about styling
them or anything like that.
So we're just gonna use tables,
table rows and table cells.
For the most part, those components are
gonna live either in their own table that
will be that component structure or
they're on the row and table cell.
And so if we're doing just a simple
kind of layout, a single column layout,
which we'll look at in a minute here,
then you'll see that we use table rows and
table cells for each component.
Things like the logo or
the headline or the hero image.
You could get more complex
as you go down this path.
You could create components from anything
from a product shot or product feature
to event invitations and calendar invites,
receipts, all that kind of stuff.
But it's important to have them
in their own discrete unit so
that you can swap them in and
out as needed.
And we're definitely gonna be overwriting
some of the defaults that most browsers
and email clients add to tables.
And we'll use HTML attributes to do that.
And then most of the styles that we
place in our emails from here on out,
at least when we're doing table-based
design, will be included in table cells.
So that td tag as opposed to a div or some
sort of container like we've seen before.
So boilerplate table looks
something like this.
We have that table tag.
We're overriding a couple of different
things in those HTML attributes.
We're applying border 0 so
that no borders are added to that table or
the cells within it.
And then we're adding cellpadding and
cellspacing and setting those to 0.
Because we wanna have full control over
all the white space in our email campaign.
So when we are adding white space or
kinda structural stuff to our emails,
that's gonna happen on
the table cell level.
So we have that table, we have tr for
the table row, and then we have td for
the table cell.
And then most of the styles we're gonna
be adding are gonna be in that table
cell level.
So you can see that inline style,
the styles will go there.
Except for anything you're kinda being
more specific about, something like
the heading element, like that h1,
we'll still wanna apply our margins there.
We could either remove those
wholesale by setting margin 0 on h1,
h2, h3 and
then using padding on the table cell.
Or we can use the margins
on the heading level there.
Yeah, that's kind of the base thing
that you're gonna be working from,
is that table, table row, table cell.
And then all of your content will live
inside of those table cells themselves.
>> Jason Rodriguez: You need
to keep in mind, though,
how you're gonna be nesting this content.
There's a good way and
a bad way to nest tables in email.
The bad way is to have everything
possible in its own table and
then nest them deeply.
There's some email clients, older
versions like Lotus Notes or IBM Notes,
if you get up to, I think it's 12 tables
deep, then everything will just break.
The layout will just
completely fall apart on you.
So hopefully you're not doing that as you
nest more and more tables in your email.
It's gonna be a massive pain in
the ass to actually maintain that and
figure out what's going where,
how to fix problems.
So generally, for just single column
layouts and simple structures,
we'll have a fluid table
that'll be set to 100% wide.
We'll have a fixed table inside of
a table cell within that container table
that will be set to something like
600 pixels, that fixed width.
And then the content will be in
its own discreet table rows and
table cells within
the fixed width container.
We'll see how that comes into play when we
start making things responsive by adapting
that fixed width for smaller screen sizes.